---
layout: post
title: "Creating shared value in healthcare systems"
subtitle: "A financing technology mobile platform in Africa"
background: '/img/posts/CSV/puzzle.jpg'
---
Creating shared value(CSV) is about “expanding the total pool of economic and social value” (Porter & Kramer, 2011). For example, fair trade traditionally means redistributing resource, but from a shared value point, it means using the power of techniques and local clusters to increase farmers’ yields, efficiency, and sustainability (Porter & Kramer, 2011). There are many opportunities for shared value in healthcare systems. For example, from a CSR viewpoint, a good healthcare system merely means donating medicines to a lower-income population. Yet from a CSV perspective, it should focus on the implementation of a new model to improve the local healthcare system (Porter, 2016). 

M-TIBA is a good example that adopts CSV and revolutionizes the remote areas’ healthcare system with limited resources. M-TIBA is a financing technology mobile platform in Africa that directly connects patients, healthcare providers, and governments, and transfers money and data between parties (M-TIBA, 2020). Patients and healthcare providers can view this platform as a wallet which patients pay it online and providers get the payment directly via the system. What is amazing is that each transaction on the platform is visible and together becomes a large data pool that contains valuable information (e.g., drugs prescribe, diagnosis, test). Moreover, together with outreach clinics, M-TIBA helped to optimize patient journeys for HIV and pregnancy care. Value-based healthcare (VBHC) is a similar concept proposed by Porter. In contrast with volume-based healthcare, the core concept of VBHC is to provide the highest patient outcomes with the lowest costs. Many countries nowadays are still usually used to fee-for-service systems; however, its emphasis on volume rather than value has failed to achieve quality or efficiency of healthcare delivery. Some practical steps have proved to create additional fee-for-service revenue through the establishment of healthcare infrastructure and patient-centered care; for example, building patient-centered medical homes structured around care teams, and using automated messaging to generate office visits to address gaps in care (Fortini, 2015). Furthermore, many healthcare databases that are currently used only describe the diagnostic or therapeutic categories of patients; however, they are not able to show the functional status of patients and cannot be used to predict their clinical course (Seara, & Mayol, 2016). Therefore, a more precise definition of value in terms of patient outcomes is required because this could aid in the organization of healthcare delivery and the development of a new information system that would allow for the evaluation of healthcare outcomes (Seara, & Mayol, 2016).

Sources:
- Porter, M. E., & Kramer, M. R. (2011). Creating shared value. Harvard Business Review, 89(1/2).
- Porter, M. E., (Apr. 2016) Creating Shared Value in Health Care. Building a Culture of Health. Harvard Business School. PowerPoint presentation.
- About M-TIBA - M-TIBA. M. (2020, November 19).[M-TIBA](https://mtiba.com/about-m-tiba/)
- Seara, G., Payá, A., & Mayol, J. (2016). [Value-based healthcare delivery in the digital era. European Psychiatry, 33, 33.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eurpsy.2016.01.862)
- Fortini, R. J. (2015). Helping value-based care delivery pay for itself. Healthcare Financial Management, 69(1), 42–45.
- Porter, M. E. (2008). [Value-based health care delivery. Annals of Surgery, 248(4), 503–9.](https://doi.org/10.1097/SLA.0b013e31818a43af)